[MUSIC]
We just learned about
optimal value functions and
the Bellman optimality equations.
You might be wondering why this
matters when our ultimate goal is not
to find the value function of an optimal
policy but the optimal policy itself.
In this video, we will show how
given an optimal value function,
it is actually quite easy to find
an associated optimal policy.
So the two goals are almost the same.
By the end of this video, you'll be able
to understand the connection between
the optimal value function and
optimal policies and
verify the optimal value function for
a given MDP.
For now we'll put off the question of
how to find optimal value functions.
Let's just look at an example where we
have already worked out the optimal state
value function, v star.
Specifically, let's take another look at
the grid world we introduced earlier in
the course.
As before,
all actions in state A transition to
state A prime with a reward of +10.
In state B, all actions transition
to B prime with a reward of +5.
The reward is zero everywhere else except
for -1, for bumping into the walls.
The discount factor is 0.9.
Here are the associated optimal values for
each state.
Notice that unlike before, the values
along the bottom are not negative.
Unlike the uniform random policy,
the optimal policy won't ever
choose to bump into the walls.
As a consequence,
the optimal value of state A is also much
higher than the immediate reward of +10.
[SOUND] In general, having v star
makes it relatively easy to work out
the optimal policy as long as we also
have access to the dynamics function p.
For any state,
we can look at each available action and
evaluate the boxed term.
There will be some action for
which this term obtains a maximum.
A deterministic policy which selects
this maximizing action for each state
will necessarily be optimal, since it
obtains the highest possible value.
The equation shown here for
pi star is thus almost the same as the
Bellman optimality equation for v star.
v star is equal to the maximum of
the boxed term over all actions.
Pi star is the argmax,
which simply means the particular
action which achieves this maximum.
To evaluate the boxed term for a given
action, we need only perform a one step
look ahead at the possible next states and
rewards that follow.
First, imagine doing so for
particular action, labeled A1.
We look at each state and
reward which may follow from
state s after taking action a1.
Since we have access to v star and
p, we can then evaluate each term
in the sum over s prime and r.
Let's say that for A1,
the boxed term evaluates to 5.
We can repeat the same procedure for A2.
Again, this requires only a one step look
ahead thanks to having access to v star.
Let's say in this case
we find a result of 10.
Finally for A3,
let's say we obtain a result of 7.
Of these three actions, A2 maximizes
the boxed term with a value of 10.
This means that A2 is the optimal action.
In fact, there could be more
than one maximizing optimal
action if multiple actions are tied.
If there are multiple maximizing actions,
we could define a stochastic optimal
policy that chooses between each
of them with some probability.
Let's take a look at how we can
find the optimal policy for
the grid world example here.
We will use the grid on the right to
fill on the optimal action choice for
each state.
First, consider the state
highlighted here.
A one step look ahead considers each
action and the potential next states and
rewards.
This is especially simple in this case,
because each
action leads us deterministically to
a specific next state and reward.
The up action leads here, giving no
reward and a next state value of 17.5.
The sum of reward and
discounted next state value is 14.0.
The right action hits the wall,
giving -1 reward and
leaving the agent in the same state,
which has a value of 16.0.
The sum of reward and
discounted next state value is 13.4.
The down action leads here, giving no
reward, but a next state value of 14.4.
After discounting, this gives 13.
Finally, the left action leads here.
Again, giving no reward, but
a next state value of 17.8.
Discounting by gamma gives us 16.
Of all these choices,
the highest value action is left at 16.
Therefore, left is the optimal
action in this state and
must be selected by any optimal policy.
As an aside,
we have also verified that v star,
a base the Bellman optimality
equation in this state.
For the maximizing left action, the right
side of the equation of value is to 16,
which is indeed equal to v star for
the state itself.
Let's look at another example.
In this state,
two different actions, up and left,
each give the same optimal value of
0.9 times 19.8, which equals 17.8.
Thus in this state,
there are two different optimal actions.
And an optimal policy is free to
pick either with some probability.
As a last example,
let's look at state A itself.
Remember that regardless of
the action we pick in state A,
we transition to A prime
with a reward of +10.
This means that in state A,
every action is optimal since
the transitions are equivalent.
v star for state A is 10 plus
gamma times v star of A prime.
10 + 0.9 times 16 = 24.4 which is
indeed the recorded value for v star.
Hopefully now,
it's clear how we can do this for
every state to find the optimal policy.
To save us some time,
let's just fill in the rest.
We see that the optimal policy essentially
heads toward state A to obtain +10
reward as quickly as possible.
[SOUND] Working out the optimal policy
from v star is especially simple
in this grid world.
Each action leads us deterministically
to a specific next state and reward.
So we only have to evaluate
one transition per action.
Remember that in general,
the dynamics function p can be stochastic,
so it might not always be so simple.
However, as long as we have access to p,
we can always find the optimal action from
v star by computing the right-hand side
of the Bellman optimality equation for
each action and finding the largest value.
If instead we have access to q star,
it's even easier to come
up with the optimal policy.
In this case, we do not have to
do a one step look ahead at all.
We only have to select any action a,
that maximizes q star of s and a.
The action-value function caches
the results of a one-step look ahead for
each action.
In this sense, the problem of finding
an optimal action-value function
corresponds to the goal of
finding an optimal policy.
[SOUND] So you should now understand
that once we had the optimal state
value function, it's relatively easy
to work out the optimal policy.
If we have the optimal
action value function,
working out the optimal
policy is even easier.
[SOUND] This correspondence between
optimal value functions and
optimal policies will help us to derive
many of the reinforced learning algorithms
we will explore later
in this specialization.